README.md, before:

Unity Command Terminal
======================

A simple and  highly performant in-game Console for calling C# methods, and displaying output from the unity `Debug` class, while running the game.

![gif](./demo.gif)

Command Terminal is based on [an implementation by Jonathan Blow](https://youtu.be/N2UdveBwWY4) done in the Jai programming language.

## Usage

Copy the contents from [CommandTerminal](./CommandTerminal) to your Assets folder. Attach a `Terminal` Component to a game object. The console window can be opened with the backtick key.

Enter `HELP` in the console to view all available commands, use the up and down arrow keys to traverse the command history.

## Registering Commands

There are 3 options to register commands to be used in the Command Terminal.

### 1. Using the RegisterCommand attribute:

The command method must be static (public or non-public).

```csharp
[RegisterCommand(Help = "Adds 2 numbers", MinArgCount = 2, MaxArgCount = 2)]
static void CommandAdd(CommandArg[] args) {
    int a = args[0].Int;
    int b = args[1].Int;

    if (Terminal.IssuedError) return; // Error will be handled by Terminal

    int result = a + b;
    Terminal.Log("{0} + {1} = {2}", a, b, result);
}
```
`MinArgCount` and `MaxArgCount` allows the Command Interpreter to issue an error if arguments have been passed incorrectly, this way you can index the `CommandArg` array, knowing the array will have the correct size.

In this case the command name (`add`) will be inferred from the method name, you can override this by setting `Name` in `RegisterCommand`.

```csharp
[RegisterCommand(Name = "MyAdd", Help = "Adds 2 numbers", MinArgCount = 2, MaxArgCount = 2)]
```

### 2. Using a FrontCommand method:

Here you still use the `RegisterCommand` attribute, but the arguments are handled in a separate method, prefixed with `FrontCommand`. This way, `MaxArgCount` and `MinArgCount` are automatically inferred.

This also allows you to keep the argument handling `FrontCommand` methods in another file, or even generate them procedurally during a pre-build.

```csharp
[RegisterCommand(Help = "Adds 2 numbers")]
static void CommandAdd(int a, int b) {
    int result = a + b;
    Terminal.Log("{0} + {1} = {2}", a, b, result);
}

static void FrontCommandAdd(CommandArg[] args) {
    int a = args[0].Int;
    int b = args[1].Int;

    if (Terminal.IssuedError) return;

    CommandAdd(a, b);
}
```

### 3. Manually adding Commands:

`RegisterCommand` only works for static methods. If you want to use a non-static method, you may add the command manually.

```csharp
Terminal.Interpreter.AddCommand("add", CommandAdd, 2, 2, "Adds 2 numbers");
```

Commit message:

Allow for Terminal to be toggled with HotKey, instead of having to close it with escape

README.md, after:

Unity Command Terminal
======================

A simple and  highly performant in-game Console for calling C# methods, and displaying output from the unity `Debug` class, while running the game.

![gif](./demo.gif)

Command Terminal is based on [an implementation by Jonathan Blow](https://youtu.be/N2UdveBwWY4) done in the Jai programming language.

## Usage

Copy the contents from [CommandTerminal](./CommandTerminal) to your Assets folder. Attach a `Terminal` Component to a game object. The console window can be toggled with a hotkey (default is backtick).

Enter `help` in the console to view all available commands, use the up and down arrow keys to traverse the command history.

## Registering Commands

There are 3 options to register commands to be used in the Command Terminal.

### 1. Using the RegisterCommand attribute:

The command method must be static (public or non-public).

```csharp
[RegisterCommand(Help = "Adds 2 numbers", MinArgCount = 2, MaxArgCount = 2)]
static void CommandAdd(CommandArg[] args) {
    int a = args[0].Int;
    int b = args[1].Int;

    if (Terminal.IssuedError) return; // Error will be handled by Terminal

    int result = a + b;
    Terminal.Log("{0} + {1} = {2}", a, b, result);
}
```
`MinArgCount` and `MaxArgCount` allows the Command Interpreter to issue an error if arguments have been passed incorrectly, this way you can index the `CommandArg` array, knowing the array will have the correct size.

In this case the command name (`add`) will be inferred from the method name, you can override this by setting `Name` in `RegisterCommand`.

```csharp
[RegisterCommand(Name = "MyAdd", Help = "Adds 2 numbers", MinArgCount = 2, MaxArgCount = 2)]
```

### 2. Using a FrontCommand method:

Here you still use the `RegisterCommand` attribute, but the arguments are handled in a separate method, prefixed with `FrontCommand`. This way, `MaxArgCount` and `MinArgCount` are automatically inferred.

This also allows you to keep the argument handling `FrontCommand` methods in another file, or even generate them procedurally during a pre-build.

```csharp
[RegisterCommand(Help = "Adds 2 numbers")]
static void CommandAdd(int a, int b) {
    int result = a + b;
    Terminal.Log("{0} + {1} = {2}", a, b, result);
}

static void FrontCommandAdd(CommandArg[] args) {
    int a = args[0].Int;
    int b = args[1].Int;

    if (Terminal.IssuedError) return;

    CommandAdd(a, b);
}
```

### 3. Manually adding Commands:

`RegisterCommand` only works for static methods. If you want to use a non-static method, you may add the command manually.

```csharp
Terminal.Interpreter.AddCommand("add", CommandAdd, 2, 2, "Adds 2 numbers");
```
